W-15895638-rtf-core-permissions-kt (#1290)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/rtf-permissions.adoc

> = Runtime Fabric Control Plane Access Permissions

Reviewer: Runtime Fabric Agent* Access Permissions

> The following table lists the Kubernetes access permissions required by the Runtime Fabric control plane. 

Reviewer: required by the Runtime Fabric Agent.

> == Runtime Fabric Core Software Permissions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Runtime Fabric control plane access permissions
```

> The following table lists all the Kubernetes resource access authorizations used by Runtime Fabric core software.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following table lists the Kubernetes access permissions required by the Runtime Fabric control plane.
```

> These RBAC (Role-based access control) configurations (ClusterRole and Rolebindings) are part of the Runtime Fabric helm charts and are automatically applied during the installation.

Reviewer 3: Do these need special formatting (code or bold)? 

> (ClusterRole and Rolebindings)

> These RBAC (Role-based access control) configurations (`ClusterRole` and `Rolebindings`) are part of the Runtime Fabric helm charts and are automatically applied during the installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These access permissions are part of the Runtime Fabric helm chart and are automatically applied during the installation/upgrade.
```

[NOTE]

> You can't extend or modify any of these core software access permissions. You need to create and apply the ClusterRole and Rolebindings for the Runtime Fabric Authorized namespaces use case. Refer to xref:authorized-namespaces.adoc[].

Reviewer 3: Not sure. if we care about "You need to". Also not sure about formatting of "ClusterRole and Rolebindings".

```suggestion
You can't extend or modify any of these core software access permissions. Instead, create and apply the ClusterRole and Rolebindings for the Runtime Fabric Authorized namespaces use case. Refer to xref:authorized-namespaces.adoc[].
```

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols=".^a,.^a,.^a,.^a]
|===
|Namespace |API Groups | Kubernetes Resources | Verbs
.9+|<rtf-namespace>|extensions, apps   |deployments, deployments/scale, daemonsets, replicasets   | *
   |“”   |pods, pods/log, pods/portforward, pods/exec, configmaps, secrets, services, namespaces, nodes, serviceaccounts, resourcequotas, events, limitranges   | *
   |batch   |jobs, cronjobs   | *
   |extensions  |jobs   | *
   |networking.k8s.io  |networkpolicies   | *
   |rbac.authorization.k8s.io  |rolebindings, clusterroles, clusterrolebindings, roles   | *
   |extensions,networking.k8s.io  |ingresses,networkpolicies   | *
   |rtf.mulesoft.com  |persistencegateways, kubernetestemplates   | *
   |autoscaling  |horizontalpodautoscalers   | *
|===

== Permissions and Mule App Deployments on Runtime Fabric

> Mule apps deployed on the Runtime Fabric platform do not expect to access the underlying Kubernetes API server. By default, Mule apps deployments do not have RBAC configurations (Role and Rolebindings).

Reviewer 3: Not sure we use "expect to" for products, but your call. And not sure about formatting of "(Role and Rolebindings)"

```suggestion
Mule apps deployed on the Runtime Fabric platform do not expect to access the underlying Kubernetes API server. By default, Mule app deployments do not have RBAC configurations (Role and Rolebindings).
```

> However, if the Mule app use case requires K8s API access, you can override this behavior by enabling the `automountserviceaccounttoken` via customization CRD and attach a Role (customer-owned) with a Role binding (customer-owned) to the service account that Runtime Fabric core software creates per deployment. Refer to xref:/customize-kubernetes-crd.adoc[].

Reviewer 3: * Do we allow short form "K8s" for Kubernetes? 
* Not clear what "via customization CRD" means. Is that "through a Custom Resource Definition" ?

> However, if the Mule app use case requires K8s (Kubernetes) API access, you can override this behavior by enabling the `automountserviceaccounttoken` via customization CRD (custom resource definition) and attach a `Role` (customer-owned) with a `Rolebinding` (customer-owned) to the service account that Runtime Fabric core software creates per deployment. Refer to xref:/customize-kubernetes-crd.adoc[].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, if a Mule application requires Kubernetes API access, it can be enabled by overriding the `automountserviceaccounttoken` setting via an infrastructure template. A customer-owned `Role` and the corresponding `RoleBinding` should be created for the service account that RTF automatically generates for each deployment. Refer to xref:/customize-kubernetes-crd.adoc[].
```
this would greatly benefit from an actual example of an infrastructure template to accomplish this example.
